docs/community/development.md, before:

## Local installation

Start by forking the project by clicking the **Fork button** up in the right corner in the [GitHub](https://github.com/django-components/django-components).
This makes a copy of the repository in your own name. Now you can clone this repository locally and start adding features:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/<your GitHub username>/django-components.git
cd django-components
```

To quickly run the tests install the local dependencies by running:

```sh
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

You also have to install this local django-components version. Use `-e` for [editable mode](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/development_mode.html) so you don't have to re-install after every change:

```sh
pip install -e .
```

## Running tests

Now you can run the tests to make sure everything works as expected:

```sh
pytest
```

The library is also tested across many versions of Python and Django. To run tests that way:

```sh
pyenv install -s 3.8
pyenv install -s 3.9
pyenv install -s 3.10
pyenv install -s 3.11
pyenv install -s 3.12
pyenv install -s 3.13
pyenv install -s 3.14
pyenv local 3.8 3.9 3.10 3.11 3.12 3.13 3.14
tox -p
```

To run tests for a specific Python version, use:

```sh
tox -e py38
```

NOTE: See the available environments in `tox.ini`.

## Linting and formatting

To check linting rules, run:

```sh
ruff check .
# Or to fix errors automatically:
ruff check --fix .
```

To format the code, run:

```sh
ruff format --check .
# Or to fix errors automatically:
ruff format .
```

To validate with Mypy, run:

```sh
mypy .
```

You can run these through `tox` as well:

```sh
tox -e mypy,ruff
```

## Playwright tests

We use [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/python/docs/intro) for end-to-end tests.

Tests decorated with `@with_playwright` automatically run across all major browsers: Chromium, Firefox, and WebKit. This ensures cross-browser compatibility.

You will need to install Playwright to run these tests. Luckily, Playwright makes it very easy:

```sh
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
playwright install chromium firefox webkit --with-deps
```

After Playwright is ready, run the tests the same way as before:

```sh
pytest
# Or for specific Python version
tox -e py38
```

!!! note

    Playwright downloads browser binaries per Playwright version. In practice, this extra step is only needed for `tox -e py38`, because that env uses a different (older) Playwright version than the other tox envs.

    If `tox -e py38` fails with "Executable doesn't exist", install the browsers using the Playwright inside that tox env:

    ```sh
    .tox/py38/bin/python -m playwright install chromium firefox webkit
    ```

## Snapshot tests

Some tests rely on snapshot testing with [syrupy](https://github.com/syrupy-project/syrupy) to test the HTML output of the components.

If you need to update the snapshot tests, add `--snapshot-update` to the pytest command:

```sh
pytest --snapshot-update
```

Or with tox:

```sh
tox -e py39 -- --snapshot-update
```

## Dev server

How do you check that your changes to django-components project will work in an actual Django project?

Use the [sampleproject](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/tree/master/sampleproject/) demo project to validate the changes:

1. Navigate to [sampleproject](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/tree/master/sampleproject/) directory:

    ```sh
    cd sampleproject
    ```

2. Install dependencies from the [requirements.txt](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/sampleproject/requirements.txt) file:

    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Link to your local version of django-components:

    ```sh
    pip install -e ..
    ```

    !!! note

        The path to the local version (in this case `..`) must point to the directory that has the `pyproject.toml` file.

4. Start Django server:

    ```sh
    python manage.py runserver
    ```

Once the server is up, it should be available at <http://127.0.0.1:8000>.

To display individual components, add them to the `urls.py`, like in the case of <http://127.0.0.1:8000/greeting>

## Building JS code

django_components uses a bit of JS code to:

- Manage the loading of JS and CSS files used by the components
- Allow to pass data from Python to JS

When you make changes to this JS code, you also need to compile it:

1. Navigate to `src/django_components_js`:

    ```sh
    cd src/django_components_js
    ```

2. Install the JS dependencies

    ```sh
    npm install
    ```

3. Compile the JS/TS code:

    ```sh
    python build.py
    ```

    The script will combine all JS/TS code into a single `.js` file, minify it,
    and copy it to `django_components/static/django_components/django_components.min.js`.

## Documentation website

The documentation website is built using [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) and [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/).

First install dependencies needed for the documentation:

```sh
pip install -r requirements-docs.txt
```

Then install this local django-components version. Use `-e` for [editable mode](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/development_mode.html) so you don't have to re-install after every change:

```sh
pip install -e .
```

To run the documentation server locally, run:

```sh
mkdocs serve
```

Then open <http://127.0.0.1:9000/django-components/> in your browser.

To just build the documentation, run:

```sh
mkdocs build
```

The documentation site is deployed automatically with Github actions (see [`.github/workflows/docs.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/docs.yml)).

The CI workflow runs when:

- A new commit is pushed to the `master` branch - This updates the `dev` version
- A new tag is pushed - This updates the `latest` version and the version specified in the tag name

### Examples

The [examples page](../../examples) is populated from entries in `docs/examples/`.

These examples have special folder layout:

```txt
|- docs/
  |- examples/
    |- <example_name>/
      |- component.py - The component definition
      |- page.py      - The page view for the example
      |- test_example_<example_name>.py - Tests
      |- README.md    - Component documentation
      |- images/      - Images used in README
```

This allows us to keep the examples in one place, and define, test, and document them.

**Previews** - There's a script in `sampleproject/examples/utils.py` that picks up the `component.py` and `page.py` files, making them previewable in the dev server (`http://localhost:8000/examples/<example_name>`).

To see all available examples, go to `http://localhost:8000/examples/`.

The examples index page displays a short description for each example. These values are taken from a top-level `DESCRIPTION` string variable in the example's `component.py` file.

**Tests** - Use the file format `test_example_<example_name>.py` to define tests for the example. These tests are picked up when you run pytest.

#### Adding examples

Let's say we want to add an example called `form`:

1. Create a new directory in `docs/examples/form/`
2. Add actual implementation in `component.py`
3. Add a live demo page in `page.py`
4. Add tests in `test_example_form.py`
5. Write up the documentation in `README.md`
6. Link to that new page from `docs/examples/index.md`.
7. Update `docs/examples/.nav.yml` to update the navigation.

### People page

The [people page](https://django-components.github.io/django-components/dev/community/people/) is regularly updated with stats about the contributors and authors. This is triggered automatically once a month or manually via the Actions tab.

See [`.github/workflows/maint-docs-people.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/maint-docs-people.yml) for more details.

## Publishing

We use Github actions to automatically publish new versions of django-components to PyPI when a new tag is pushed. [See the full workflow here](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/publish-to-pypi.yml).

### Commands

We do not manually release new versions of django-components. Commands below are shown for reference only.

To package django-components into a distribution that can be published to PyPI, run `build`:

```sh
# Install pypa/build
python -m pip install build --user
# Build a binary wheel and a source tarball
python -m build --sdist --wheel --outdir dist/ .
```

To then publish the contents of `dist/` to PyPI, use `twine` ([See Python user guide](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/tutorials/packaging-projects/#uploading-the-distribution-archives)):

```sh
twine upload --repository pypi dist/* -u __token__ -p <PyPI_TOKEN>
```

### Release new version

Let's say we want to release a new version `0.141.6`. We need to:

1.  Bump the `version` in `pyproject.toml` to the desired version.

    ```toml
    [project]
    version = "0.141.6"
    ```

2.  Create a summary of the changes in `CHANGELOG.md` at the top of the file.

    When writing release notes for individual changes, it's useful to write them like mini announcements:

    - Explain the context
    - Then the change itself
    - Then include an example

    ```md
    # Release notes

    ## v0.141.6

    _2025-09-24_

    #### Fix

    - Tests - Fix bug when using `@djc_test` decorator and the `COMPONENTS`
      settings are set with `ComponentsSettings`
      See [#1369](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/issues/1369)
    ```

    !!! note

        When you include the release date in the format `_YYYY-MM-DD_`, it will be displayed in the release notes.

        See [`docs/scripts/gen_release_notes.py`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/docs/scripts/gen_release_notes.py) for more details.

        ![Example of a changelog entry](../images/release-notes-dates.png){ width="250" }

3.  Create a new PR to merge the changes above into the `master` branch.

4.  Create new release in [Github UI](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/releases/new).

    ![Github UI release part 1](../images/release-github-ui-1.png)
    ![Github UI release part 2](../images/release-github-ui-2.png)
    ![Github UI release part 3](../images/release-github-ui-3.png)
    ![Github UI release part 4](../images/release-github-ui-4.png)

### Semantic versioning

We use [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for django-components.

The version number is in the format `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` (e.g. `0.141.6`).

- `MAJOR` (e.g. `1.0.0`) is reserved for significant architectural changes and breaking changes.
- `MINOR` (e.g. `0.1.0`) is incremented for new features.
- `PATCH` (e.g. `0.0.1`) is incremented for bug fixes or documentation changes.

## Development guides

Head over to [Dev guides](./devguides/dependency_mgmt.md) for a deep dive into how django_components' features are implemented.

## Maintenance

### Updating supported versions

The `scripts/supported_versions.py` script manages the supported Python and Django versions for the project.

The script runs automatically via GitHub Actions once a week to check for version updates. If changes are detected, it creates a GitHub issue with the necessary updates. See the [`maint-supported-versions.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/maint-supported-versions.yml) workflow.

You can also run the script manually:

```sh
# Check if versions need updating
python scripts/supported_versions.py check

# Generate configuration snippets for manual updates
python scripts/supported_versions.py generate
```

The `generate` command will print to the terminal all the places that need updating and what to set them to.

### Updating link references

The `scripts/validate_links.py` script can be used to update the link references.

```sh
python scripts/validate_links.py
```

When new version of Django is released, you can use the script to update the URLs pointing to the Django documentation.

First, you need to update the `URL_REWRITE_MAP` in the script to point to the new version of Django.

Then, you can run the script to update the URLs in the codebase.

```sh
python scripts/validate_links.py --rewrite
```

## Integrations

### Discord

We integrate with our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/NaQ8QPyHtD) to notify about new releases, issues, PRs, and discussions.

See:
- [`issue-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/issue-discord.yml)
- [`release-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/release-discord.yml)
- [`pr-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/pr-discord.yml)
- [`discussion-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/discussion-discord.yml)

See [this tutorial](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks) on how to set up the Discord webhooks.

The Discord webhook URLs are stored as secrets in the GitHub repository.

- `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_DEVELOPMENT` - For new issues
- `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_ANNOUNCEMENTS` - For new releases

## Project management

### Project board

We use the [GitHub project board](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1) to manage the project.

Quick overview of the columns:

- _No status_ - Issues that are not planned yet and need more discussion
- 🔵 **Backlog** - Planned but not ready to be picked up
- 🟢 **Ready** - Ready to be picked up
- 🟡 **In Progress** - Someone is already working on it
- 🟣 **Ready for release** - Completed, but not released yet
- 🟠 **Done** - Completed and released

New issues are automatically added to the _No status_ column.

To pick up an issue, assign it to yourself and move it to the 🟡 **In Progress** column.

![Project board](../images/project-board.png)

Use the sidebar to filter the issues by different labels, milestones, and issue types:

![Project board filter](../images/project-board-label-filter.png){ width="250" }

### Priority

Which issues should be picked up first?

We suggest the following guideline:

1. Bugs - First fix [bugs](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--bug) and documentation errors.
2. V1 release - Then pick up issues that are part of the [v1 release milestone](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=milestone--v1).

After that, pick what you like!

### Labels

Labels help keep our project organized. [See the list of all labels here](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/labels).

#### Milestones

- [`milestone--v1`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=milestone--v1) - Work to be done for the V1 release.

#### Issue types

- [`type--bug`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--bug) - Bugs.
- [`type--documentation`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--documentation) - Documentation changes.
- [`type--enhancement`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--enhancement) - New features and improvements.
- [`type--integration`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--integration) - Integrating with other libraries or systems.
- [`type--operations`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--operations) - Relating to "operations" - Github Actions, processes, etc.
- [`type--optimisation`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--optimisation) - Optimizing the code for performance.

Commit message:

refactor: drop support for Python 3.8 and 3.9, and update types (#1549)

docs/community/development.md, after:

## Local installation

Start by forking the project by clicking the **Fork button** up in the right corner in the [GitHub](https://github.com/django-components/django-components).
This makes a copy of the repository in your own name. Now you can clone this repository locally and start adding features:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/<your GitHub username>/django-components.git
cd django-components
```

To quickly run the tests install the local dependencies by running:

```sh
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

You also have to install this local django-components version. Use `-e` for [editable mode](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/development_mode.html) so you don't have to re-install after every change:

```sh
pip install -e .
```

## Running tests

Now you can run the tests to make sure everything works as expected:

```sh
pytest
```

The library is also tested across many versions of Python and Django. To run tests that way:

```sh
pyenv install -s 3.10
pyenv install -s 3.11
pyenv install -s 3.12
pyenv install -s 3.13
pyenv install -s 3.14
pyenv local 3.10 3.11 3.12 3.13 3.14
tox -p
```

To run tests for a specific Python version, use:

```sh
tox -e py310
```

NOTE: See the available environments in `tox.ini`.

## Linting and formatting

To check linting rules, run:

```sh
ruff check .
# Or to fix errors automatically:
ruff check --fix .
```

To format the code, run:

```sh
ruff format --check .
# Or to fix errors automatically:
ruff format .
```

To validate with Mypy, run:

```sh
mypy .
```

You can run these through `tox` as well:

```sh
tox -e mypy,ruff
```

## Playwright tests

We use [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/python/docs/intro) for end-to-end tests.

Tests decorated with `@with_playwright` automatically run across all major browsers: Chromium, Firefox, and WebKit. This ensures cross-browser compatibility.

You will need to install Playwright to run these tests. Luckily, Playwright makes it very easy:

```sh
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
playwright install chromium firefox webkit --with-deps
```

After Playwright is ready, run the tests the same way as before:

```sh
pytest
# Or for specific Python version
tox -e py310
```

## Snapshot tests

Some tests rely on snapshot testing with [syrupy](https://github.com/syrupy-project/syrupy) to test the HTML output of the components.

If you need to update the snapshot tests, add `--snapshot-update` to the pytest command:

```sh
pytest --snapshot-update
```

Or with tox:

```sh
tox -e py310 -- --snapshot-update
```

## Dev server

How do you check that your changes to django-components project will work in an actual Django project?

Use the [sampleproject](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/tree/master/sampleproject/) demo project to validate the changes:

1. Navigate to [sampleproject](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/tree/master/sampleproject/) directory:

    ```sh
    cd sampleproject
    ```

2. Install dependencies from the [requirements.txt](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/sampleproject/requirements.txt) file:

    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Link to your local version of django-components:

    ```sh
    pip install -e ..
    ```

    !!! note

        The path to the local version (in this case `..`) must point to the directory that has the `pyproject.toml` file.

4. Start Django server:

    ```sh
    python manage.py runserver
    ```

Once the server is up, it should be available at <http://127.0.0.1:8000>.

To display individual components, add them to the `urls.py`, like in the case of <http://127.0.0.1:8000/greeting>

## Building JS code

django_components uses a bit of JS code to:

- Manage the loading of JS and CSS files used by the components
- Allow to pass data from Python to JS

When you make changes to this JS code, you also need to compile it:

1. Navigate to `src/django_components_js`:

    ```sh
    cd src/django_components_js
    ```

2. Install the JS dependencies

    ```sh
    npm install
    ```

3. Compile the JS/TS code:

    ```sh
    python build.py
    ```

    The script will combine all JS/TS code into a single `.js` file, minify it,
    and copy it to `django_components/static/django_components/django_components.min.js`.

## Documentation website

The documentation website is built using [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) and [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/).

First install dependencies needed for the documentation:

```sh
pip install -r requirements-docs.txt
```

Then install this local django-components version. Use `-e` for [editable mode](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/development_mode.html) so you don't have to re-install after every change:

```sh
pip install -e .
```

To run the documentation server locally, run:

```sh
mkdocs serve
```

Then open <http://127.0.0.1:9000/django-components/> in your browser.

To just build the documentation, run:

```sh
mkdocs build
```

The documentation site is deployed automatically with Github actions (see [`.github/workflows/docs.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/docs.yml)).

The CI workflow runs when:

- A new commit is pushed to the `master` branch - This updates the `dev` version
- A new tag is pushed - This updates the `latest` version and the version specified in the tag name

### Examples

The [examples page](../../examples) is populated from entries in `docs/examples/`.

These examples have special folder layout:

```txt
|- docs/
  |- examples/
    |- <example_name>/
      |- component.py - The component definition
      |- page.py      - The page view for the example
      |- test_example_<example_name>.py - Tests
      |- README.md    - Component documentation
      |- images/      - Images used in README
```

This allows us to keep the examples in one place, and define, test, and document them.

**Previews** - There's a script in `sampleproject/examples/utils.py` that picks up the `component.py` and `page.py` files, making them previewable in the dev server (`http://localhost:8000/examples/<example_name>`).

To see all available examples, go to `http://localhost:8000/examples/`.

The examples index page displays a short description for each example. These values are taken from a top-level `DESCRIPTION` string variable in the example's `component.py` file.

**Tests** - Use the file format `test_example_<example_name>.py` to define tests for the example. These tests are picked up when you run pytest.

#### Adding examples

Let's say we want to add an example called `form`:

1. Create a new directory in `docs/examples/form/`
2. Add actual implementation in `component.py`
3. Add a live demo page in `page.py`
4. Add tests in `test_example_form.py`
5. Write up the documentation in `README.md`
6. Link to that new page from `docs/examples/index.md`.
7. Update `docs/examples/.nav.yml` to update the navigation.

### People page

The [people page](https://django-components.github.io/django-components/dev/community/people/) is regularly updated with stats about the contributors and authors. This is triggered automatically once a month or manually via the Actions tab.

See [`.github/workflows/maint-docs-people.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/maint-docs-people.yml) for more details.

## Publishing

We use Github actions to automatically publish new versions of django-components to PyPI when a new tag is pushed. [See the full workflow here](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/publish-to-pypi.yml).

### Commands

We do not manually release new versions of django-components. Commands below are shown for reference only.

To package django-components into a distribution that can be published to PyPI, run `build`:

```sh
# Install pypa/build
python -m pip install build --user
# Build a binary wheel and a source tarball
python -m build --sdist --wheel --outdir dist/ .
```

To then publish the contents of `dist/` to PyPI, use `twine` ([See Python user guide](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/tutorials/packaging-projects/#uploading-the-distribution-archives)):

```sh
twine upload --repository pypi dist/* -u __token__ -p <PyPI_TOKEN>
```

### Release new version

Let's say we want to release a new version `0.141.6`. We need to:

1.  Bump the `version` in `pyproject.toml` to the desired version.

    ```toml
    [project]
    version = "0.141.6"
    ```

2.  Create a summary of the changes in `CHANGELOG.md` at the top of the file.

    When writing release notes for individual changes, it's useful to write them like mini announcements:

    - Explain the context
    - Then the change itself
    - Then include an example

    ```md
    # Release notes

    ## v0.141.6

    _2025-09-24_

    #### Fix

    - Tests - Fix bug when using `@djc_test` decorator and the `COMPONENTS`
      settings are set with `ComponentsSettings`
      See [#1369](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/issues/1369)
    ```

    !!! note

        When you include the release date in the format `_YYYY-MM-DD_`, it will be displayed in the release notes.

        See [`docs/scripts/gen_release_notes.py`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/docs/scripts/gen_release_notes.py) for more details.

        ![Example of a changelog entry](../images/release-notes-dates.png){ width="250" }

3.  Create a new PR to merge the changes above into the `master` branch.

4.  Create new release in [Github UI](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/releases/new).

    ![Github UI release part 1](../images/release-github-ui-1.png)
    ![Github UI release part 2](../images/release-github-ui-2.png)
    ![Github UI release part 3](../images/release-github-ui-3.png)
    ![Github UI release part 4](../images/release-github-ui-4.png)

### Semantic versioning

We use [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for django-components.

The version number is in the format `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` (e.g. `0.141.6`).

- `MAJOR` (e.g. `1.0.0`) is reserved for significant architectural changes and breaking changes.
- `MINOR` (e.g. `0.1.0`) is incremented for new features.
- `PATCH` (e.g. `0.0.1`) is incremented for bug fixes or documentation changes.

## Development guides

Head over to [Dev guides](./devguides/dependency_mgmt.md) for a deep dive into how django_components' features are implemented.

## Maintenance

### Updating supported versions

The `scripts/supported_versions.py` script manages the supported Python and Django versions for the project.

The script determines supported versions by:
1. Fetching actively supported Python versions from https://devguide.python.org/versions/
2. Fetching Django's compatibility matrix from https://docs.djangoproject.com/
3. Finding the intersection: Python versions that are both actively supported by Python and compatible with supported Django versions

This means we only support Python versions that are still actively maintained by the Python team, even if Django still supports older deprecated versions (like Python 3.8 or 3.9).

The script runs automatically via GitHub Actions once a week to check for version updates. If changes are detected, it creates a GitHub issue with the necessary updates. See the [`maint-supported-versions.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/maint-supported-versions.yml) workflow.

You can also run the script manually:

```sh
# Check if versions need updating
python scripts/supported_versions.py check

# Generate configuration snippets for manual updates
python scripts/supported_versions.py generate
```

The `generate` command will print to the terminal all the places that need updating and what to set them to.

### Updating link references

The `scripts/validate_links.py` script can be used to update the link references.

```sh
python scripts/validate_links.py
```

When new version of Django is released, you can use the script to update the URLs pointing to the Django documentation.

First, you need to update the `URL_REWRITE_MAP` in the script to point to the new version of Django.

Then, you can run the script to update the URLs in the codebase.

```sh
python scripts/validate_links.py --rewrite
```

## Integrations

### Discord

We integrate with our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/NaQ8QPyHtD) to notify about new releases, issues, PRs, and discussions.

See:
- [`issue-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/issue-discord.yml)
- [`release-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/release-discord.yml)
- [`pr-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/pr-discord.yml)
- [`discussion-discord.yml`](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/blob/master/.github/workflows/discussion-discord.yml)

See [this tutorial](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks) on how to set up the Discord webhooks.

The Discord webhook URLs are stored as secrets in the GitHub repository.

- `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_DEVELOPMENT` - For new issues
- `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_ANNOUNCEMENTS` - For new releases

## Project management

### Project board

We use the [GitHub project board](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1) to manage the project.

Quick overview of the columns:

- _No status_ - Issues that are not planned yet and need more discussion
- 🔵 **Backlog** - Planned but not ready to be picked up
- 🟢 **Ready** - Ready to be picked up
- 🟡 **In Progress** - Someone is already working on it
- 🟣 **Ready for release** - Completed, but not released yet
- 🟠 **Done** - Completed and released

New issues are automatically added to the _No status_ column.

To pick up an issue, assign it to yourself and move it to the 🟡 **In Progress** column.

![Project board](../images/project-board.png)

Use the sidebar to filter the issues by different labels, milestones, and issue types:

![Project board filter](../images/project-board-label-filter.png){ width="250" }

### Priority

Which issues should be picked up first?

We suggest the following guideline:

1. Bugs - First fix [bugs](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--bug) and documentation errors.
2. V1 release - Then pick up issues that are part of the [v1 release milestone](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=milestone--v1).

After that, pick what you like!

### Labels

Labels help keep our project organized. [See the list of all labels here](https://github.com/django-components/django-components/labels).

#### Milestones

- [`milestone--v1`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=milestone--v1) - Work to be done for the V1 release.

#### Issue types

- [`type--bug`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--bug) - Bugs.
- [`type--documentation`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--documentation) - Documentation changes.
- [`type--enhancement`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--enhancement) - New features and improvements.
- [`type--integration`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--integration) - Integrating with other libraries or systems.
- [`type--operations`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--operations) - Relating to "operations" - Github Actions, processes, etc.
- [`type--optimisation`](https://github.com/orgs/django-components/projects/1/views/1?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=type--optimisation) - Optimizing the code for performance.
