docs/reference/extension_hooks.md, before:

<!-- Autogenerated by reference.py -->

# Extension hooks

Overview of all the extension hooks available in Django Components.

Read more on [Extensions](../../concepts/advanced/extensions).


## Hooks

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_class_created
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The created Component class

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_class_deleted
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The to-be-deleted Component class

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_data
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component` | [`Component`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component instance that is being rendered
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component class
`component_id` | `str` | The unique identifier for this component instance
`context_data` | `Dict` | Dictionary of context data from `Component.get_context_data()`
`css_data` | `Dict` | Dictionary of CSS data from `Component.get_css_data()`
`js_data` | `Dict` | Dictionary of JavaScript data from `Component.get_js_data()`

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_input
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`args` | `List` | List of positional arguments passed to the component
`component` | [`Component`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component instance that received the input and is being rendered
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component class
`component_id` | `str` | The unique identifier for this component instance
`context` | [`Context`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/templates/api/#django.template.Context) | The Django template Context object
`kwargs` | `Dict` | Dictionary of keyword arguments passed to the component
`slots` | `Dict` | Dictionary of slot definitions

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_registered
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The registered Component class
`name` | `str` | The name the component was registered under
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The registry the component was registered to

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_rendered
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component` | [`Component`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component instance that is being rendered
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component class
`component_id` | `str` | The unique identifier for this component instance
`result` | `str` | The rendered component

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_unregistered
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The unregistered Component class
`name` | `str` | The name the component was registered under
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The registry the component was unregistered from

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_registry_created
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The created ComponentRegistry instance

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_registry_deleted
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The to-be-deleted ComponentRegistry instance

## Objects

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentClassCreatedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentClassDeletedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentDataContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentInputContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentRegisteredContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentUnregisteredContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnRegistryCreatedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnRegistryDeletedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

Commit message:

refactor: rename `context_data` field to `template_data`

docs/reference/extension_hooks.md, after:

<!-- Autogenerated by reference.py -->

# Extension hooks

Overview of all the extension hooks available in Django Components.

Read more on [Extensions](../../concepts/advanced/extensions).


## Hooks

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_class_created
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The created Component class

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_class_deleted
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The to-be-deleted Component class

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_data
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component` | [`Component`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component instance that is being rendered
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component class
`component_id` | `str` | The unique identifier for this component instance
`context_data` | `Dict` | Deprecated. Use `template_data` instead. Will be removed in v1.0.
`css_data` | `Dict` | Dictionary of CSS data from `Component.get_css_data()`
`js_data` | `Dict` | Dictionary of JavaScript data from `Component.get_js_data()`
`template_data` | `Dict` | Dictionary of template data from `Component.get_template_data()`

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_input
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`args` | `List` | List of positional arguments passed to the component
`component` | [`Component`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component instance that received the input and is being rendered
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component class
`component_id` | `str` | The unique identifier for this component instance
`context` | [`Context`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/templates/api/#django.template.Context) | The Django template Context object
`kwargs` | `Dict` | Dictionary of keyword arguments passed to the component
`slots` | `Dict` | Dictionary of slot definitions

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_registered
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The registered Component class
`name` | `str` | The name the component was registered under
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The registry the component was registered to

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_rendered
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component` | [`Component`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component instance that is being rendered
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The Component class
`component_id` | `str` | The unique identifier for this component instance
`result` | `str` | The rendered component

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_component_unregistered
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`component_cls` | [`Type[Component]`](../api#django_components.Component) | The unregistered Component class
`name` | `str` | The name the component was registered under
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The registry the component was unregistered from

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_registry_created
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The created ComponentRegistry instance

::: django_components.extension.ComponentExtension.on_registry_deleted
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_root_heading: true
      show_signature: true
      separate_signature: true
      show_symbol_type_heading: false
      show_symbol_type_toc: false
      show_if_no_docstring: true
      show_labels: false

**Available data:**

name | type | description
--|--|--
`registry` | [`ComponentRegistry`](../api#django_components.ComponentRegistry) | The to-be-deleted ComponentRegistry instance

## Objects

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentClassCreatedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentClassDeletedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentDataContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentInputContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentRegisteredContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnComponentUnregisteredContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnRegistryCreatedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true

::: django_components.extension.OnRegistryDeletedContext
    options:
      heading_level: 3
      show_if_no_docstring: true
